Update README (#6)
lambdaclass/noir_backend_using_gnark: README.md

# Using gnark as a backend for Noir

If you want to develop a backend for Noir, basically what you need to do is to translate ACIR (Abstract Circuit Intermediate Representation) to something that your backend could understand.

> The prerequisites for this are to have certain knowledge about ACIR and its codebase and to have certain knowledge about the backend that you are going to support.
> In this case, the backend is [gnark](https://github.com/ConsenSys/gnark). Written in Go, gnark is a fast zk-SNARK library that offers a high-level API to design circuits. The library is open-source and developed under the Apache 2.0 license 
> 
> ## Overview
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prerequisites for this are to have certain knowledge about ACIR and its codebase, and the backend that you are going to support.
In this case, the backend is [gnark](https://github.com/ConsenSys/gnark). Written in Go, gnark is a fast zk-SNARK library that offers a high-level API to design circuits. This library is open-source and developed under the Apache 2.0 license.

## Overview

```

```mermaid
flowchart
    N[Noir] --ACIR--> BR[Backend in gnark wrapper in Rust]
    BR[Backend in gnark wrapper written in Rust] --Raw R1CS--> B[Concrete Backend]
    subgraph B[Concrete Backend]
        direction TB
        BW[WASM/FFI] --> BG[Bakend in gnark written in Go]
    end
```

### Backend wrapper written in Rust

> This module is needed because a Noir's backend has to be written in Rust and we want to develop a backend using gnark which is written in Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module is needed because Noir's backend has to be written in Rust and we want to develop one using gnark which is written in Go.
```

> This Rust module is basically in charge of implementing the trait `Backend` for a given type which we've named `Gnark` which represents our backend and it is also in charge of translating ACIR into something useful. Even though gnark supports several proving systems (like Plonk and Groth16) this wrapper will translate ACIR into R1CS. In the future, more proving systems can be easily supported (we are already planning on supporting Plonk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Rust module is basically in charge of implementing the trait `Backend` for a given type which we've named `Gnark` which represents our backend and of translating ACIR into something useful. Even though gnark supports several proving systems (like Plonk and Groth16) this wrapper will translate ACIR into R1CS. In the future, more proving systems can be easily supported (we are already planning on supporting Plonk).
```

If Plonk's is already supported why are we planning on supporting it at a later date? It should be explained.
Also, what do you mean when you say that it aims to "translating ACIR into something useful", why it isn't useful as it already is?

Author: 1. A C++ Plonk implementation is already supported as a backend for Noir, but gnark's Plonk implementation isn't. We want to support several implementations.
2. What do you think about changing "translating ACIR into something useful" to "mapping ACIR into an R1CS-friendly data structure"?

Reviewer: That change sounds good!

> The first part is not that much difficult. We just followed the other Noir's backends' structure (see [Arkwork's Marlin's](https://github.com/noir-lang/marlin_arkworks_backend/tree/master/src) and [Aztec's Plonk's](https://github.com/noir-lang/aztec_backend/tree/master/barretenberg_static_lib/src)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first part is not so difficult. We just followed the other Noir backends' structure (see [Arkwork's Marlin's](https://github.com/noir-lang/marlin_arkworks_backend/tree/master/src) and [Aztec's Plonk's](https://github.com/noir-lang/aztec_backend/tree/master/barretenberg_static_lib/src)).
```

> The second part has most of the work and it can be divided into two parts: the raw R1CS generation (ACIR translation) and the communication with the concrete backend (glue between Rust and Go). In the following paragraphs, we are going to explain these sub-parts a little bit better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second part takes most of the work. It can be cut into two parts: the raw R1CS generation (ACIR translation) and the communication with the concrete backend (glue between Rust and Go). In the following paragraphs, we are going to explain these sub-parts a little bit better.
```

Generating a raw R1CS or translating ACIR to something R1CS-friendly could be seen as just mapping a struct to another struct. For this, we've made two structs: `RawR1CS` and `RawGate`.

> The communication between the concrete backend (the one written in Go) could be done through a pre-compiled WASM API or through FFI. For this, what we are basically doing is serializing the `RawR1CS` struct into JSON and sending it as a parameter for the WASM functions (in the case that we end up using the WASM API) or to the Go functions (FFI). At the moment we are looking for the easiest way to communicate Rust and Go. We started using WASMER but it is a little bit limited in terms of the amount of information that can be sent to a WASM function so it is discarded for the moment (a second look could help here). The next WASM library to try is WASM-PACK, but we started researching FFI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The communication between the concrete backend (the one written in Go) could be done through a pre-compiled WASM API or through FFI. For this, what we are basically doing is serializing the `RawR1CS` struct into JSON and sending it as a parameter for the WASM functions (in the case that we end up using the WASM API) or to the Go functions (FFI). At the moment we are looking for the easiest way to communicate Rust with Go. We started using WASMER but it is a little bit limited in terms of the amount of information that can be sent to a WASM function so we have discarded it for the moment (a second look could help here). Another step can be to try another WASM library called WASM-PACK, but we decided to start researching FFI.
```

And that's it for this module, in the next section we are going to dive a little deeper into the WASM API.

### ACIR to raw R1CS

> The mapping from ACIR to R1CS. I prefer and use "raw" because it is not a concrete R1CS but its parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mapping from ACIR to R1CS. I prefer to use "raw" because it is not a concrete R1CS but its component parts.
```

These are the structures:

#### `RawR1CS`

```rust
pub struct RawR1CS {
    pub gates: Vec<RawGate>,
    pub public_inputs: acvm::PublicInputs,
    pub values: Vec<Fr>,
    pub num_variables: usize,
}
```

#### `RawGate`

```rust
pub struct RawGate {
    pub mul_terms: Vec<(Fr, acvm::Witness, acvm::Witness)>,
    pub add_terms: Vec<(Fr, acvm::Witness)>,
    pub constant_term: Fr,
}
```

### Backends interface (glue)

> In charge of the communication between Rust and Go this module wraps the Go functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module wraps the Go functions in charge of the communication between Rust and Go.
```
